New docs: reduce-data-inconsistency #7880 (#7972)
pingcap/docs: troubleshoot-data-inconsistency-errors.md

---
title: Troubleshoot Inconsistency Between Data and Indexes
summary: Learn how to deal with errors reported by the consistency check between data and index.
---

# Troubleshoot Inconsistency Between Data and Indexes

> TiDB checks consistency between data and indexes when it executes transactions or the [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) statement. If the check finds that a record key-value and the corresponding index key-value are inconsistent, that is, a key-value pair storing row data and the corresponding key-value pair storing its indexes are inconsistent (for example, more indexes or missing indexes), TiDB reports a data inconsistency error and prints the related errors in error logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TiDB checks consistency between data and indexes when it executes transactions or the [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) statement. If the check finds that a record key-value and the corresponding index key-value are inconsistent, that is, a key-value pair storing row data and the corresponding key-value pair storing its index are inconsistent (for example, more indexes or missing indexes), TiDB reports a data inconsistency error and prints the related errors in error logs.
```

> This document describes the meanings of data inconsistency errors and provides some methods to bypass the consistency check. When a data consistency error occurs, contact PingCAP technical support to troubleshoot or fix it.

Author: ```suggestion
This document describes the meanings of data inconsistency errors and provides some methods to bypass the consistency check. When a data consistency error occurs, contact PingCAP technical support for troubleshooting.
```

#### Error 8138

`ERROR 8138 (HY000): writing inconsistent data in table: t, expected-values:{KindString green} != record-values:{KindString GREEN}`

This error indicates that the transaction was attempting to write an incorrect row value. For the data to be written, due to issues in the encoding and decoding process, the encoded row data does not match the original data before encoding.

#### Error 8139

`ERROR 8139 (HY000): writing inconsistent data in table: t, index: i1, index-handle:4 != record-handle:3, index: tables.mutation{key:kv.Key{0x74, 0x80, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x49, 0x5f, 0x69, 0x80, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x1, 0x1, 0x68, 0x65, 0x6c, 0x6c, 0x6f, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0xfc, 0x1, 0x68, 0x65, 0x6c, 0x6c, 0x6f, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0xfc, 0x3, 0x80, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x4}, flags:0x0, value:[]uint8{0x30}, indexID:1}, record: tables.mutation{key:kv.Key{0x74, 0x80, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x49, 0x5f, 0x72, 0x80, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x3}, flags:0xd, value:[]uint8{0x80, 0x0, 0x2, 0x0, 0x0, 0x0, 0x1, 0x2, 0x5, 0x0, 0xa, 0x0, 0x68, 0x65, 0x6c, 0x6c, 0x6f, 0x68, 0x65, 0x6c, 0x6c, 0x6f}, indexID:0}`

> This error indicates that the handle (that is, the key of the row data) value of the data to be written is inconsistent. For the `i1` index in the table `t`, the row to be written by the transaction has a handle of 4 in the index key-value pair and a handle of 3 in the row record key-value pair. The data of this row will not be written.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error indicates that the handle (that is, the key of the row data) of the data to be written is inconsistent. For the `i1` index in the table `t`, the row to be written by the transaction has a handle of 4 in the index key-value pair and a handle of 3 in the row record key-value pair. The data of this row will not be written.
```
I prefer this. You don't say "a value of the key".

#### Error 8140

`ERROR 8140 (HY000): writing inconsistent data in table: t, index: i2, col: c1, indexed-value:{KindString hellp} != record-value:{KindString hello}`

> This error indicates that the data in a row to be written by the transaction does not match the data in the index. For the `i2` index in the table `t`, a row to be written by the transaction has data `hellp` in the index key-value pair and data `hello` in the row record key-value pair. The data of this row will not be written.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error indicates that the data in a row to be written by the transaction does not match the data in the index. For the `i2` index in the table `t`, a row to be written by the transaction has data `hellp` in the index key-value pair and data `hello` in the record key-value pair. The data of this row will not be written.
```

#### Error 8141

`ERROR 8141 (HY000): assertion failed: key: 7480000000000000405f72013300000000000000f8, assertion: NotExist, start_ts: 430590532931813377, existing start ts: 430590532931551233, existing commit ts: 430590532931551234`

> This error indicates that the assertion failed when a transaction was committed. Assuming that data and index are consistent, TiDB asserted that the key `7480000000000000405f720133000000000000000000f8` did not exist. When the transaction was committed, TiDB found the key did exist, written by the transaction with `start ts` as `430590532931551233`. TiDB will print the MVCC (Multi-Version Concurrency Control) history of this key to logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error indicates that the assertion failed when a transaction was being committed. Assuming that data and index are consistent, TiDB asserted that the key `7480000000000000405f720133000000000000000000f8` did not exist. When the transaction was being committed, TiDB found the key did exist, written by the transaction with the `start ts` of `430590532931551233`. TiDB will print the MVCC (Multi-Version Concurrency Control) history of this key to logs.
```
The transaction won't be committed if there is an assertion error.

### Errors reported in admin check

This section lists the data inconsistency errors that might occur in TiDB when you execute the [`ADMIN CHECK [TABLE|INDEX]`](/sql-statements/sql-statement-admin-check-table-index.md) statement, and explains the meanings of these errors with examples.

#### Error 8003

`ERROR 8003 (HY000): table count 3 != index(idx) count 2`

This error indicates that the table on which the `ADMIN CHECK` statement is executed has 3 row key-value pairs but only 2 index key-value pairs.

#### Error 8134

`ERROR 8134 (HY000): data inconsistency in table: t, index: c2, col: c2, handle: "2", index-values:"KindInt64 13" != record-values:"KindInt64 12", compare err:<nil>`

> This error indicates that for the `c2` index in table `t`, the handle value of a row is 13 in the index key-value pair but is 12 in the row record key-value pair, which results in data inconsistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error indicates that for the `c2` index in table `t`, the handle of a row is 13 in the index key-value pair but is 12 in the row record key-value pair, which results in data inconsistency.
```

#### Error 8223

`ERROR 8223 (HY000): data inconsistency in table: t2, index: i1, handle: {hello, hello}, index-values:"" != record-values:"handle: {hello, hello}, values: [KindString hello KindString hello]"`

> This error indicates that `index-value` is null and `record-values` is not null, meaning that the record does not have the corresponding index but has the corresponding row, which results in data inconsistency.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This error indicates that `index-values` are null and `record-values` are not null, meaning that there is no corresponding index for the row.
```
This sentence sounds weird. "Row" and "record" usually mean the same thing.

## Reasons and solutions

When a data consistency error occurs, the reasons can be as follows:

> - The data and index in the existing data are consistent and the current version of TiDB has a bug. If an ongoing transaction is about to write inconsistent data into the existing data, TiDB aborts the transaction.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The data and index in the existing data are consistent and the current version of TiDB has a bug. If an ongoing transaction is about to write inconsistent data, TiDB aborts the transaction.
```

> - The data and index in the existing data are inconsistent. The inconsistent data could be from a dangerous operation erroneously in the past or caused by a TiDB bug.

Author: ```suggestion
- The data and index in the existing data are inconsistent. The inconsistent data could be from a dangerous operation performed by mistake in the past or caused by a TiDB bug.
```

> - The data and index in the existing data are inconsistent. The inconsistent data could be from an error or a dangerous operation in the past or caused by a TiDB bug.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- The data and index in the existing data are inconsistent. The inconsistent data could be from an erroneous dangerous operation in the past or caused by a TiDB bug.
```

- The data and index are consistent but the detection algorithm has a bug that causes errors by mistake.

> If you receive a data inconsistency error, contact PingCAP technical support immediately to troubleshoot or fix it instead of dealing with the error by yourself. If PingCAP technical support confirms that the error is reported by mistake, or your application needs to skip such errors urgently, you can use the following methods to bypass the check.

Author: ```suggestion
If you receive a data inconsistency error, contact PingCAP technical support for troubleshooting immediately instead of dealing with the error by yourself. If PingCAP technical support confirms that the error is reported by mistake, or your application needs to skip such errors urgently, you can use the following methods to bypass the check.
```

### Disable error check

> For some errors reported in transaction execution, you can bypass the corresponding check as follows:

Author: ```suggestion
For the following errors reported in transaction execution, you can bypass the corresponding check:
```
